There's a lot of people landing fixes to firefox.
And if you change code, you have the potential of introducing bugs and breaking things.

To minimize disruption for other developers...
Everytime you land a change, builds get created for most supporting operating systems, 
and a series of tests run.

---

So you can see here, there is a change that landed and this is the revision number.

You can see a description fo that bug here.

You can see each of the operating systems all the tests ran on here.

For each operating system, you can see to the right th B (1, 2, 3, 4 5, Bc, ...JP).
Each of these colored things is a whole category of tests.

---

The B is for the build itself and some compiled tests.

---

The M here just says that what follows are mochitests.
Mochitests are javascript tests


bc is browser crome, oth is momchitest other
1,2,3,4,5 Mochitest plain are just html file which contain javascript and test some aspect of the DOM
bc is for browser chrome how the browser interacts with itelf and content
mochitest other is for higher privs than a web page has, sometimes xul files

---

C is for crash tests - does the pag eload without crashing?
J is for javascript tests
R is for reftests - do these 2 pages render the same match up pixel by pixel.
  for example this can compare 2 different markups, or even 2 different image formats.


---

X is for xpcshell tests, these are basically just javascript shell tests,
Useful when you don't need a window but want to test a certain component
like an xpcom object or javascript module.

---

T is for talos performance tests


---

JP is for Jet Pac SDK tests - Add-ons

---

Sometimes an operating system may have addition tests that are not run on other operating systems.
For example on Windows 8 Opt you can see thi mc that is not in any other line..
This stands for metro chrome tests.


--
Things that are green just mean that al the tests in that category succeeded.
Things in orange just means that one or more of the things failed, you can click to see more.
You can click the little + at the bottom to re-run the test.
